\*args and \*\*kwargs
---------------------

I have come to see that most new python programmers have a hard time
figuring out the \*args and \*\*kwargs magic variables. So what are they
? First of all let me tell you that it is not necessary to write \*args
or \*\*kwargs. Only the ``*`` (asterisk) is necessary. You could have
also written \*var and \*\*vars. Writing \*args and \*\*kwargs is just a
convention. So now lets take a look at \*args first.

Usage of \*args
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

\*args and \*\*kwargs are mostly used in function definitions. \*args
and \*\*kwargs allow you to pass a variable number of arguments to a
function. What variable means here is that you do not know beforehand
how many arguments can be passed to your function by the user
so in this case you use these two keywords. \*args is used to send a
**non-keyworded** variable length argument list to the function. Here's
an example to help you get a clear idea:

.. code:: python

    def test_var_args(f_arg, *argv):
        print("first normal arg:", f_arg)
        for arg in argv:
            print("another arg through *argv:", arg)

    test_var_args('yasoob', 'python', 'eggs', 'test')

This produces the following result:

.. code:: python

    first normal arg: yasoob
    another arg through *argv: python
    another arg through *argv: eggs
    another arg through *argv: test

I hope this cleared away any confusion that you had. So now let's talk
about \*\*kwargs

Usage of \*\*kwargs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

\*\*kwargs allows you to pass **keyworded** variable length of arguments
to a function. You should use \*\*kwargs if you want to handle **named
arguments** in a function. Here is an example to get you going with it:

.. code:: python

    def greet_me(**kwargs):
        for key, value in kwargs.items():
            print("{0} = {1}".format(key, value))

    >>> greet_me(name="yasoob")
    name = yasoob

So you can see how we handled a keyworded argument list in our function.
This is just the basics of \*\*kwargs and you can see how useful it is.
Now let's talk about how you can use \*args and \*\*kwargs to call a
function with a list or dictionary of arguments.

Using \*args and \*\*kwargs to call a function
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

So here we will see how to call a function using \*args and \*\*kwargs.
Just consider that you have this little function:

.. code:: python

    def test_args_kwargs(arg1, arg2, arg3):
        print("arg1:", arg1)
        print("arg2:", arg2)
        print("arg3:", arg3)

Now you can use \*args or \*\*kwargs to pass arguments to this little
function. Here's how to do it:

.. code:: python

    # first with *args
    >>> args = ("two", 3, 5)
    >>> test_args_kwargs(*args)
    arg1: two
    arg2: 3
    arg3: 5

    # now with **kwargs:
    >>> kwargs = {"arg3": 3, "arg2": "two", "arg1": 5}
    >>> test_args_kwargs(**kwargs)
    arg1: 5
    arg2: two
    arg3: 3

**Order of using \*args \*\*kwargs and formal args**

So if you want to use all three of these in functions then the order is

.. code:: python

    some_func(fargs, *args, **kwargs)

When to use them?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It really depends on what your requirements are. The most common use
case is when making function decorators (discussed in another chapter).
Moreover it can be used in monkey patching as well. Monkey patching
means modifying some code at runtime. Consider that you have a class
with a function called ``get_info`` which calls an API and returns the
response data. If we want to test it we can replace the API call with
some test data. For instance:

.. code:: python

    import someclass

    def get_info(self, *args):
        return "Test data"

    someclass.get_info = get_info

I am sure that you can think of some other use cases as well.
